It's pretty obvious someone is playing "what language will look best on
my resume" here, and if playing that game is obvious to me from this
distance, it will be glaring to hiring managers. Few people are looking
for a history of "trendy" (you'd be amazed how fast "trendy" becomes
"sad" in tech), while a history of doing the dirty, unpopular, work that
keeps development teams productive is always welcome, long after the
tech stack fades into obsolescence.


Fuck this guy

Those of us in industry are very fed up with Ruby and Ruby on Rails, but
I think it's much more because of their communities than it is because
of the technologies themselves.

I don't know if there's a polite way of saying this, but far too many of
the people involved with those communities are utter disasters who in
turn create utterly disastrous software systems. For every Ruby success
story we may hear about, there are probably 10 or 20 total disasters
that aren't as widely known. The disasters are usually because of the
people involved, not the technologies.

Those of us who've been in the industry for many years, if not decades,
and have had to engage in hiring over the past 8 or so years will know
what I'm talking about. We have to deal with candidates who have no
formal education at all in computer science, software engineering, or a
related field. They don't even have the equivalent of a single
four-month community college programming course. If we're lucky, they've
read a single book about web development using Ruby on Rails. (This is
ignoring their other serious flaws, such as the complete inability to
dress or act with even a minimal level of professionalism; I've
interviewed some of these hipsters while they're wearing t-shirts with
dumbass sayings on them, and fedora hats.)

Now, having been in the industry for years, I can see right through
these people. When they get past HR, they don't get past me. But I can't
be everywhere. I've worked with a few organizations lately where the
people making the hiring or purchasing decisions in the past didn't know
better, and now these organizations have ended up with their very own
Ruby on Rails disasters.

The Ruby community may not realize it, but they're getting a very bad
reputation in the industry. It's nearly as bad as the reputation that
the PHP and JavaScript communities have now. But this is exactly what's
expected to happen when dealing with programmers who do shitty work in
the first place, or who think it's perfectly normal to write
unmaintainable code, or who think it's acceptable to job hop 3 or 4
times a year, or who can't work in a professional manner, or who deliver
one under-performing and costly software disaster after another.

At more and more places, "Ruby" and "Ruby on Rails" are becoming
synonyms for "costly disaster". That's not the kind of reputation that a
programming language or a web framework can have if it wants to survive
and flourish past the short term. Maybe the people in these communities
don't realize it, but they're losing trust at an alarming pace.

-- His point is that certain tools attract bad programmers, because of
the peculiarities of the culture that is formed around those tools

Moving forward though, I think one of the biggest problem with
JavaScript in general is that wooe have far too many people who know just
enough JavaScript to be dangerous that trying to establish high
community standards will be very, very hard. In fact, one of the reasons
I like Python so much is not that Python itself is all that great (it,
too, has issues), but rather that there are countless excellent, well
maintained, well designed libraries available. The same is simply not
true for JavaScript in general.

Choose the best tool for the job - better yet, choose the tool that is
best for you and fuck everyone else.


